Docs: massive rework of Access control chapter (#5566)
WeblateOrg/weblate: docs/admin/access.rst

.. _access-control:

Access control
==============

> Weblate comes with a fine-grained privilege system to assign user permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Weblate comes equipped with a fine-grained privilege system to assign user permissions
```

Reviewer 2: nice but not needed.

for the whole instance, or in a limited scope.

.. _access-simple:

Simple access control
---------------------

If you are not administrating the whole Weblate installation and just have

> some access to manage certain projects (like on Hosted Weblate Service),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
some access to manage certain projects (like on Hosted Weblate),
```

> your access control management options will be limited to following settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
your access control management options are limited to the following settings.
```

If you don't need any complex setup, those could be sufficient for you as well.

.. _acl:

Project access control
++++++++++++++++++++++

.. include:: /snippets/not-hosted-libre.rst

You can limit user's access to individual projects by selecting a different
:guilabel:`Access control`. Available options are:

Public
    Publicly visible, translatable for all logged-in users
Protected
    Publicly visible, but translatable only for selected users
Private
    Visible and translatable only for selected users
Custom
    :ref:`User management <manage-acl>` features will be disabled; by
    default all users will be forbidden to performed any actions on the project.

>     You will have to setup all the permissions using :ref:`custom-acl`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You will have to set up all the permissions using :ref:`custom-acl`.
```

> :guilabel:`Access control` can be changed on the :guilabel:`Access` tab in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Access control` can be changed in the :guilabel:`Access` tab of the
```

configuration (:guilabel:`Manage` ↓ :guilabel:`Settings`) of each respective
project.

.. image:: /images/project-access.png

> Default value can be changed by :setting:`DEFAULT_ACCESS_CONTROL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default value can be changed by :setting:`DEFAULT_ACCESS_CONTROL`.
```

.. note::

    Even for `Private` projects, some info about your project will be exposed:
    statistics and language summary for the whole instance will include counts
    for all projects despite of the access control setting.

.. note::

    The actual set of permissions available for users by default in `Public`,

>     `Protected` and `Private` projects can be redefined by a Webalate instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    `Protected` and `Private` projects can be redefined any Webalate instance
```

Reviewer 2: any does not make sense here.

    administrator using :ref:`custom settings <custom-acl>`.

.. warning::

    By turning on `Custom` access control, Weblate will remove all
    :ref:`special groups <manage-acl>` it has created for this project.
    If you are doing this without admin permission for the whole Weblate
    instance, you will instantly lose your access to manage the project.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`project-access_control`

.. _manage-acl:

Managing per-project access control
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Users with the :guilabel:`Manage project access` privilege (see
:ref:`privileges`) can manage users in projects with non-`Custom` access
control. They can assign users to one of the following groups.

For `Public`, `Protected` and `Private` projects:

Administration
    Has all permissions available in the project.

Review (only if :ref:`review workflow <reviews>` is turned on)
    Can approve translations during review.

For `Protected` and `Private` projects only:

Translate
    Can translate the project, and upload translations made offline.

Sources

>     Can edit source strings (if allowed in settings) and source string info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Can edit source strings (if allowed in the settings) and source string info.
```

Languages

>     Can manage translated languages (add or remove translations).

Reviewer: and or?

Glossary
    Can manage glossary (add or remove entries, or upload).

Memory
    Can manage translation memory.

Screenshots
    Can manage screenshots (add or remove them, and associate them to source
    strings).

VCS
    Can manage VCS and access the exported repository.

Billing
    Can access billing info (see :ref:`billing`).

> Unfortunately, as for now it's not possible to change this predefined set of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, it is not yet possible to change this predefined set of
```

Reviewer 2: partially implemented

groups. Also this way it's not possible to give just some additional permissions

> to all the users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to all users.
```

.. note::

    For non-`Custom` access control an instance of each group described above is
    actulally defined for each project. The actual name of those groups will be
    ``Project@Group``. They will be displayed in the Django admin interface.

>     Although they can't be edited via it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Although they can't be edited from there.
```

.. image:: /images/manage-users.png

These features are available on the :guilabel:`Manage users` page, which can be
accessed from the project's menu :guilabel:`Manage` ↓ :guilabel:`Users`.

New user invitation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Also besides adding an existing user to the project it is possible to invite a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, besides adding an existing user to the project, it is possible to invite
```

> new one. The new user will be created immediately, but his or her account will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new ones. Any new user will be created immediately, but the account will
```

> be inactive till signing in with a link in the invitation e-mail. It is not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
remain inactive till signing in with a link in the invitation sent via e-mail. It is not
```

required to have any site-wide privileges in order to do so, access management
permission on the project's scope (e.g. a membership in the `Administration`
group) would be sufficient.

.. versionadded:: 3.11

  It is possible to resend the e-mail for user invitations (invalidating any
  previously sent invitation)

The same kind of invitations are available site-wide from the
:ref:`management interface <management-interface>` on :guilabel:`Users` tab.

.. _custom-acl:

Custom access control
---------------------

.. include:: /snippets/not-hosted-libre.rst

.. versionchanged:: 3.0

    Before Weblate 3.0, the privilege system was based on Django, but is now

>     specifically built for Weblate. If you are using anything older, please consult

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    specifically built for Weblate. If using anything older, please consult
```

    the documentation for the specific version you are using.

The permission system is based on groups and roles, where roles define a set of
permissions, and groups link them to users and translations, see
:ref:`auth-model` for more details.

> Most powerful features of the Weblate's access control system for now are

Reviewer: "Most powerful" is iffy.

Reviewer 2: true. I added `the`

available only through the :ref:`Django admin interface <admin-interface>`. You
can use it to manage permissions of any project: you are not necessary have to
actually switch it to `Custom` :ref:`access control <acl>` to utilize it. However
you must have superuser privileges in order to use it.

If you are not interested in details of implementation and just want to create a
simple-enough configuration based on defaults or don't have a site-wide access

> to whole Weblate installation (e.g. on Hosted Weblate Service), please refer to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the whole Weblate installation (e.g. on Hosted Weblate Service), please refer to the
```

:ref:`access-simple` section.

Common setups
+++++++++++++

> This section contains overview of some common configurations you may be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section contains an overview of some common configurations you may be
```

interested in.

> Site wide permission management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Site-wide permission management
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> To manage permissions for a whole instance at once, you may just add users to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage permissions for a whole instance at once, add users to
```
One way of?

appropriate :ref:`default groups <default-groups>`:

* `Users` (this is done by default by
  :ref:`automatic group assignment <autogroup>`)
* `Reviewers` (if you are using :ref:`review workflow <reviews>` with dedicated
  reviewers)
* `Managers` (if you want to delegate most of management operations to somebody
  else).

You should keep all projects configured as `Public` (see :ref:`acl`), otherwise
the site-wide permissions provided by membership in `Users` and `Reviewers` groups
won't kick in by default.

You may also grant some additional permissions of your choice to the default
groups. For example, you may want give a permission to manage screenshots to all
the `Users`.

You can define some new custom groups as well. In this case if you want to
keep managing your permissions site-wide for these groups too, choose an
appropriate value for the :guilabel:`Project selection` (e.g.
:guilabel:`All projects` or :guilabel:`All public projects`).

> Per project permission management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Per-project permission management
```

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If you want, you still may set your projects to `Protected` or `Private`, and
:ref:`manage users <manage-acl>` per-project in the Weblate interface.

> By default this actually just prevents Weblate from granting access provided by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default this just prevents Weblate from granting access provided by
```

> `Users` and `Viewers` :ref:`default groups <default-groups>` due to thees groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Users` and `Viewers` :ref:`default groups <default-groups>` due to these group's
```

Reviewer 2: *these groups’*
is right

own configuration. This doesn't prevent you from granting permissions to those

> projects site-wide by altering default groups or creating new one, or creating

Reviewer: ```suggestion
projects site-wide by altering default groups or creating a new one, or creating
```

additional custom settings for individual component as described bellow.

One of the main benefits of managing the permissions through the Weblate
interface is that you can delegate it to other users without giving them
superuser privileges. In order to do so just add them to the `Administration`
group of the project.

Custom permissions for languages, components or projects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can create your own dedicated groups to manage permissions for distinct

> objects such as languages, components and projects. Although this groups can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
objects such as languages, components and projects. Although these groups can
```
any such?

only grant additional privileges, you are not able to revoke any permission
granted by site-wide or per-project groups by adding a yet another custom group.

**Example:**

  If you want (for whatever reason) to allow translation to a
  specific language (lets say `Czech`) only to a closed set of reliable users
  while keeping translations to other languages public, you will have to:

  1. Remove the permission to translate to the `Czech` from all the users. In the
     default configuration this can be done by altering the `Users`
     :ref:`default group <default-groups>`.

     .. list-table:: Group `Users`
         :stub-columns: 1

         * - Language selection
           - `As defined`
         * - Languages
           - All but `Czech`

..

  2. Add a dedicated group for `Czech` translators.

     .. list-table:: Group `Czech translators`
         :stub-columns: 1

         * - Roles
           - `Power users`
         * - Project selection
           - `All public projects`
         * - Language selection
           - `As defined`
         * - Languages
           - `Czech`

..

>   3. Add to the group some users you wish to give the permissions to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. Include in the group some users you wish to grant the permissions to.
```
Guessing the way to do it is by way of configuring the group, and that is why this isn't "Add some users to the group to grant them these permissions"

Reviewer 2: thanks for the point, rephrased.

> As you can see, permissions management this way is a powerful tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: considered

> Unfortunately, on the down side it can be quite a tedious job. And you can't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While powerful, this can be quite a tedious job. And you can't
```

Reviewer 2: You can’t, probably not only for now as that’s how Django permissions work

delegate it to another user without granting superuser permissions.

.. _auth-model:

Users, roles, groups and permissions
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The authentication models consist of several objects:

`Permission`
    Individual permissions defined by Weblate. Permissions can not be
    assigned to users. This can only be done through assignment of roles.
`Role`
    A Role defines a set of permissions. This allows reuse of these sets in
    several places, making the administration easier.
`User`
    Users can belong to several groups.
`Group`
    Groups connect roles, users and authentication objects (projects,
    languages and component lists).

.. graphviz::

    graph auth {

        "User" -- "Group";
        "Group" -- "Role";
        "Role" -- "Permission";
        "Group" -- "Project";
        "Group" -- "Language";
        "Group" -- "Components";
        "Group" -- "Component list";
    }

.. note::

  A group can have no roles assigned to it, in that case access to browse the

>   project is assumed (see bellow).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  project by anyone is assumed (see below).
```

Access for browse to a project
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A user has to be a member of a group linked to the project, or any component
inside that project. Having membership is enough, no specific permissions are
needed to browse the project (this is used in the default `Viewers` group, see
:ref:`default-groups`).

Access for browse to a component
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A user can access unrestricted components once able to access the components'

> project (and will have all the permissions he or she was granted for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
project (and will have all the permissions the user was granted for the
```
Isn't it by way of being in a group assigned to the project? (I don't know how access control works).

Author: > Isn't it by way of being in a group assigned to the project? (I don't know how access control works.)

Yes, it is, but I believe to elaborate it here is a bit excessive...

project). With :ref:`component-restricted` turned on, access to the component

> requires explicit permissions for the component (or a component list it is in).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requires explicit permissions for the component (or a component list the component is in).
```
consistent with similar instance above

.. _perm-check:

Scope of groups
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The scope of the permission assigned by the roles in the groups are applied by
the following rules:

- If the group specifies any :guilabel:`Component list` all the permissions given to

>   the members of that group are granted for all the components in the component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  members of that group are granted for all the components in the component
```

  lists attached to the group and an access with no additional permissions is
  granted for all the projects these components are in. :guilabel:`Components`
  and :guilabel:`Projects` are ignored.

- If the group specifies any :guilabel:`Components` all the permissions given to
  the members of that group are granted for all the components attached to the
  group and an access with no additional permissions is granted for all the
  projects these components are in. :guilabel:`Projects` are ignored.

> - Otherwise if the group specifies any :guilabel:`Projects` either by directly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Otherwise, if the group specifies any :guilabel:`Projects` either by directly
```

>   listing them or by :guilabel:`Selected projects` set to a value like `All

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  listing them or by having :guilabel:`Selected projects` set to a value like `All
```

>   public`, all the permissions are applied to all the projects, which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  public`, all those permissions are applied to all the projects, which
```
Didn't read, gusesing

>   effectively grants the same permissions to access all the projects'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  effectively grants the same permissions to access all projects'
```
those, the(?), newly configured?

  :ref:`unrestricted components <component-restricted>`.

> - The restrictions imposed by group's :guilabel:`Languages` are applied later,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The restrictions imposed by a group's :guilabel:`Languages` are applied later,
```

>   when the access to perform certain action is checked, and it only affects just

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  when the access to perform certain action is checked, and it only affects just
```
Can we avoid "checked" as in also checkbox-checked?

Reviewer 2: done

Author: It's should be `verified`, not `enabled`.

Author: fixed that

  some translation-related permissions.

.. hint::

   Use :guilabel:`Language selection` or :guilabel:`Project selection`
   to automate inclusion of all languages or projects.

**Example:**

>   Let's say there is a project ``foo`` with two component: ``foo/bar`` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Let's say there is a project ``foo`` with the components: ``foo/bar`` and
```

  ``foo/baz`` and the next group:

  .. list-table:: Group `Spanish Admin-Reviewers`
         :stub-columns: 1

         * - Roles
           - `Review Strings`, `Manage repository`
         * - Components
           - foo/bar
         * - Languages
           - `Spanish`

..

>   Members of that group will have next permissions (assuming the default role settings):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Members of that group will have the next permissions (assuming the default role settings):
```
The next what? The next line, secondary…?

Reviewer 2: following is right

Reviewer: Changed to "following"

Reviewer 2: it’s already changed in the file.

>     - General access (for browsing) to the whole project ``foo`` including both

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - General (browsing) access to the whole project ``foo`` including both
```

      its subcomponents: ``foo/bar`` and ``foo/baz``.

>     - Review strings in ``foo/bar`` Spanish translation (and only it).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Review strings in ``foo/bar`` Spanish translation (only).
```

    - Manage VCS for the whole ``foo/bar`` repository e.g. commit pending
      changes made by translators for all languages.

.. _autogroup:

Automatic group assignments
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

> On the bottom of :guilabel:`Group` editing page in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the bottom of the :guilabel:`Group` editing page in the
```

:ref:`Django admin interface <admin-interface>` you can specify
:guilabel:`Automatic group assignments`, which is a list of regular expressions

> used to automatically assign newly created users to the group based on their

Reviewer: ```suggestion
used to automatically assign newly created users to a group based on their
```
?

e-mail addresses. This assignment only happens upon account creation.

> The most common use case for the feature is to assign all new users to some

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most common use-case for the feature is to assign all new users to some
```

default group. In order to do so you will probably want to keep the default

> value (``^.*$``) for the regexp. Another use case for this option might be to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
value (``^.*$``) for the regular expression field. Another use-case for this option might be to
```

give some additional privileges to employees of your company by default.

> Assuming all of them use corporative e-mail addresses on your domain, this can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assuming all of them use corporate e-mail addresses on your domain, this can
```
Is it @yourdomain or is it @corporate1 and @corporate2 on @yourdomain?

> Assuming all of them use corporative e-mail addresses on your domain, this can

Reviewer: Is it @yourdomain or is it @corporate1 and @corporate2 on @yourdomain?

Author: @comradekingu, ??

> be accomplished with an expression like ``^.*@mycompony.com``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be accomplished with an expression like ``^.*@mycompany.com``.
```
This error was almost too good. :)

.. note::

    Automatic group assignment to `Users` and `Viewers` is always recreated

>     during migrations. If you want to turn it off, set the regular expression to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    when upgrading from one Weblate version to another. If you want to turn it off, set the regular expression to
```
also when going backwards?

Author: AFAIK upgrade process is irreversible...

    ``^$`` (which won't match anything).

.. note::

    As for now there is no way to bulk-add already existing users to some group

>     via UI. For that you may resolve to the :ref:`REST API <api>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    via the user interface. For that you may resort to using the :ref:`REST API <api>`.
```

Default groups and roles
++++++++++++++++++++++++

After installation a default set of groups is created (see :ref:`default-groups`).

These roles and groups are created upon installation. The built-in roles are
always kept up to date by the database migration when upgrading. You can't
actually change them, please define a new role if you want to define your own
set of permissions.

> .. _privileges:

Reviewer 3: Is this intentional? The `privileges` label is removed from top of the document and added here. That makes all references point to a different location now.

Reviewer 2: @Fat-Zer

Reviewer 2: @nijel after the reading, I suggest:
- keeping the change
- change the existing links to `access-control

Author: Yes, this was intentional, I've actually tried to review all the references to the document, but it looks like I've missed this one.

Thanks for pointing this out. I'll check all the references to the doc once again to be on the safe side...

Author: I fixed the references, please verify.

Reviewer 3: Safer approach would to avoid reusing previous label - the build would fail, and it would be clear what needs to be changed.

Reviewer: I like the rewrite. Very boolean.

Would it fix anything to clarify default groups must be removed if you want to add new ones?
Automate that, I don't know, things.

Reviewer 2: This is solved.

.. _perm-check:

Scope of groups
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The scope of the permission assigned by the roles in the groups are applied by
the following rules:

- If the group specifies any :guilabel:`Component list` all the permissions given to
  members of that group are granted for all the components in the component
  lists attached to the group and an access with no additional permissions is
  granted for all the projects these components are in. :guilabel:`Components`
  and :guilabel:`Projects` are ignored.

- If the group specifies any :guilabel:`Components` all the permissions given to
  the members of that group are granted for all the components attached to the
  group and an access with no additional permissions is granted for all the
  projects these components are in. :guilabel:`Projects` are ignored.

- Otherwise, if the group specifies any :guilabel:`Projects` either by directly
  listing them or by having :guilabel:`Selected projects` set to a value like `All
  public`, all those permissions are applied to all the projects, which
  effectively grants the same permissions to access all projects'
  :ref:`unrestricted components <component-restricted>`.

> - The restrictions imposed by a group's :guilabel:`Languages` are applied later,
>   when the access to perform a certain action is verified, and it only affects
>   some translation-related permissions.

Author: ```suggestion
- The restrictions imposed by a group's :guilabel:`Languages` are applied separately,
  when it is verified if a user has an access to perform certain actions. Namely,
  It's applied only to actions directly related to translation process itself like
  reviewing, saving translations, adding suggestions, etc.
```

I want to rephrase the paragraph, but not sure. What do you think?

Reviewer: Longer for dubious benefit. Let's just get the formatting and info in check and I can come in and deal with the rephrasing in a separate PR.

Reviewer 2: @Fat-Zer 
> I want to rephrase the paragraph, but not sure. What do you think?

I think it’s good.

>   some translation-related permissions.

Author: ```suggestion
- The restrictions imposed by a group's :guilabel:`Languages` are applied separately,
  when it is verified if a user has an access to perform certain actions. Namely,
  It's applied only to actions directly related to translation process itself like
  reviewing, saving translations, adding suggestions, etc.
```

I want to rephrase the paragraph, but not sure. What do you think?

Private
    Visible and translatable only for selected users.
Custom
    :ref:`User management <manage-acl>` features will be disabled; by
    default all users are forbidden to performed any actions on the project.
    You will have to set up all the permissions using :ref:`custom-acl`.

:guilabel:`Access control` can be changed in the :guilabel:`Access` tab of the
configuration (:guilabel:`Manage` ↓ :guilabel:`Settings`) of each respective
project.

.. image:: /images/project-access.png

The default value can be changed by :setting:`DEFAULT_ACCESS_CONTROL`.

.. note::

    Even for `Private` projects, some info about your project will be exposed:
    statistics and language summary for the whole instance will include counts
    for all projects despite the access control setting.
    Your project name and other information can’t be revealed through this.

.. note::

    The actual set of permissions available for users by default in `Public`,
    `Protected`, and `Private` projects can be redefined by Weblate instance
    administrator using :ref:`custom settings <custom-acl>`.

.. warning::

    By turning on `Custom` access control, Weblate will remove all

>     :ref:`special groups <manage-acl>` it has created for selected project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    :ref:`special groups <manage-acl>` it has created for a selected project.
```

    If you are doing this without admin permission for the whole Weblate
    instance, you will instantly lose your access to manage the project.

.. seealso::

    :ref:`project-access_control`

.. _manage-acl:

Managing per-project access control
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Users with the :guilabel:`Manage project access` privilege (see
:ref:`privileges`) can manage users in projects with non-`Custom` access
control. They can assign users to one of the following groups.

For `Public`, `Protected` and `Private` projects:

Administration
    Includes all permissions available for the project.

Review (only if :ref:`review workflow <reviews>` is turned on)

>     Can approve translations during the review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Can approve translations during review.
```

   password using invited e-mail address in the password reset form as the account
   is created already.

.. versionadded:: 3.11

  It is possible to resend the e-mail for user invitations (invalidating any
  previously sent invitation).

The same kind of invitations are available site-wide from the
:ref:`management interface <management-interface>` on the :guilabel:`Users` tab.

Per-project permission management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can set your projects to `Protected` or `Private`, and
:ref:`manage users <manage-acl>` per-project in the Weblate user interface.

By default this prevents Weblate from granting access provided by
`Users` and `Viewers` :ref:`default groups <default-groups>` due to these groups’
own configuration. This doesn't prevent you from granting permissions to those
projects site-wide by altering default groups, creating a new one, or creating
additional custom settings for individual component as described in :ref:`custom-acl` below.

One of the main benefits of managing permissions through the Weblate
user interface is that you can delegate it to other users without giving them

> superuser privilege. In order to do so, add them to the `Administration`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the superuser privilege. In order to do so, add them to the `Administration`
```

can use it to manage permissions of any project. You don’t necessarily have to
switch it to `Custom` :ref:`access control <acl>` to utilize it. However
you must have superuser privileges in order to use it.

If you are not interested in details of implementation, and just want to create a
simple-enough configuration based on the defaults, or don't have a site-wide access
to the whole Weblate installation (like on `Hosted Weblate <https://hosted.weblate.org/>`_),
please refer to the :ref:`access-simple` section.

Common setups
+++++++++++++

This section contains an overview of some common configurations you may be
interested in.

Site-wide permission management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To manage permissions for a whole instance at once, add users to
appropriate :ref:`default groups <default-groups>`:

* `Users` (this is done by default by the
  :ref:`automatic group assignment <autogroup>`).
* `Reviewers` (if you are using :ref:`review workflow <reviews>` with dedicated
  reviewers).
* `Managers` (if you want to delegate most of the management operations to somebody
  else).

You should keep all projects configured as `Public` (see :ref:`acl`), otherwise

> the site-wide permissions provided by membership in `Users` and `Reviewers` groups

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the site-wide permissions provided by membership in the `Users`, and `Reviewers` groups
```

Reviewer 2: the comma shouldn’t be there so I remove it and committed

won't have any effect.

You may also grant some additional permissions of your choice to the default
groups. For example, you may want to give a permission to manage screenshots to all
the `Users`.

You can define some new custom groups as well. In this case, if you want to
keep managing your permissions site-wide for these groups too, choose an
appropriate value for the :guilabel:`Project selection` (e.g.
:guilabel:`All projects` or :guilabel:`All public projects`).

Custom permissions for languages, components or projects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can create your own dedicated groups to manage permissions for distinct
objects such as languages, components, and projects. Although these groups can
only grant additional privileges, you can’t revoke any permission granted
by site-wide or per-project groups by adding another custom group.

**Example:**

  If you want (for whatever reason) to allow translation to a
  specific language (lets say `Czech`) only to a closed set of reliable translators
  while keeping translations to other languages public, you will have to:

>   1. Remove the permission to translate to the `Czech` from all the users. In the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Remove the permission to translate `Czech` from all the users. In the
```

- If the group specifies any :guilabel:`Component list`, all the permissions given to
  members of that group are granted for all the components in the component
  lists attached to the group, and an access with no additional permissions is
  granted for all the projects these components are in. :guilabel:`Components`
  and :guilabel:`Projects` are ignored.

- If the group specifies any :guilabel:`Components`, all the permissions given to
  the members of that group are granted for all the components attached to the
  group, and an access with no additional permissions is granted for all the
  projects these components are in. :guilabel:`Projects` are ignored.

- Otherwise, if the group specifies any :guilabel:`Projects`, either by directly
  listing them or by having :guilabel:`Selected projects` set to a value like `All
  public`, all those permissions are applied to all the projects, which
  effectively grants the same permissions to access all projects'
  :ref:`unrestricted components <component-restricted>`.

- The restrictions imposed by a group's :guilabel:`Languages` are applied separately,
  when it’s verified if a user has an access to perform certain actions. Namely,

>   it's applied only to actions directly related to translation process itself like

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  it's applied only to actions directly related to the translation process itself like
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, thanks!

.. warning::

    By turning on `Custom` access control, Weblate will remove all

>     :ref:`special groups <manage-acl>` it has created for selected project.

Reviewer: _a_ selected project?

Reviewer 2: Yes, thanks. Didn’t see it in the long run.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, my error.

Yes, selected=the project you are in.

Reviewer 2: solved

    Includes all permissions available for the project.

Review (only if :ref:`review workflow <reviews>` is turned on)

>     Can approve translations during the review.

Reviewer: drop "the"

Reviewer 2: You’re right! Can you add it as a suggestion, or should I write it in?

    For non-`Custom` access control an instance of each group described above is
    actulally defined for each project. The actual name of those groups will be
    ``Project@Group``, also displayed in the Django admin interface this way.

>     Although they can't be edited from Weblate user interface.

Reviewer: user-interface

Reviewer 2: I would keep *Weblate* here intentionally to stay clear as we refer to the Django admin user interface in the lines around.

Reviewer: That isn't how we agreed to hyphen it in the rework 2 PR. I won't miss it in 2.5.

Reviewer 2: I see, you’re right! I thought you meant removing the *Weblate* word

Reviewer 2: done

   password using invited e-mail address in the password reset form as the account
   is created already.

.. versionadded:: 3.11

  It is possible to resend the e-mail for user invitations (invalidating any
  previously sent invitation).

The same kind of invitations are available site-wide from the
:ref:`management interface <management-interface>` on the :guilabel:`Users` tab.

Per-project permission management
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can set your projects to `Protected` or `Private`, and
:ref:`manage users <manage-acl>` per-project in the Weblate user interface.

By default this prevents Weblate from granting access provided by
`Users` and `Viewers` :ref:`default groups <default-groups>` due to these groups’
own configuration. This doesn't prevent you from granting permissions to those
projects site-wide by altering default groups, creating a new one, or creating
additional custom settings for individual component as described in :ref:`custom-acl` below.

One of the main benefits of managing permissions through the Weblate
user interface is that you can delegate it to other users without giving them

> superuser privilege. In order to do so, add them to the `Administration`

Reviewer: the superuser

Reviewer 2: done

.. include:: /snippets/not-hosted-libre.rst

.. versionchanged:: 3.0

    Before Weblate 3.0, the privilege system was based on Django, but is now
    specifically built for Weblate. If using anything older, please consult
    the documentation for the specific version you are using.

The permission system is based on groups and roles, where roles define a set of
permissions, and groups link them to users and translations, see
:ref:`auth-model` for more details.

> 

Author: I've moved this here, because this is irrelevant for the `Simple access control`, because user have no interaction with roles or permissions there, so mentioning it in the chapter's opening looks very confusing.

Author: @orangesunny, I didn't reverted your commit, but I believe it should be, your thoughts?

Reviewer 2: You are right, I put it partially back, please check: https://github.com/WeblateOrg/weblate/pull/5566/commits/5ce371a0df79cbaf121f1665a7183c44259f1fdf

This section contains an overview of some common configurations you may be
interested in.

Locking down Weblate
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To completely lock down your Weblate, you can use :setting:`REQUIRE_LOGIN` to
force users to sign in and :setting:`REGISTRATION_OPEN` to prevent new
registrations.

> 

Author: reverted it

appropriate :ref:`default groups <default-groups>`:

* `Users` (this is done by default by the
  :ref:`automatic group assignment <autogroup>`).
* `Reviewers` (if you are using :ref:`review workflow <reviews>` with dedicated
  reviewers).
* `Managers` (if you want to delegate most of the management operations to somebody
  else).

You should keep all projects configured as `Public` (see :ref:`acl`), otherwise

> the site-wide permissions provided by membership in `Users` and `Reviewers` groups

Reviewer: the `Users` and `Reviewers`

Reviewer 2: Yes, can you add a suggestion for `the`?

> appropriate value for the :guilabel:`Project selection` (e.g.

Reviewer: this makes no sense to me.
"to manage screenshots appropriate value" ?? and then, something.

Reviewer 2: resolved

Reviewer 2: managed

:guilabel:`All projects` or :guilabel:`All public projects`).

Custom permissions for languages, components or projects
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can create your own dedicated groups to manage permissions for distinct
objects such as languages, components, and projects. Although these groups can
only grant additional privileges, you can’t revoke any permission granted
by site-wide or per-project groups by adding another custom group.

**Example:**

  If you want (for whatever reason) to allow translation to a
  specific language (lets say `Czech`) only to a closed set of reliable translators
  while keeping translations to other languages public, you will have to:

>   1. Remove the permission to translate to the `Czech` from all the users. In the

Reviewer: remove "to the" from "to the `Czech`"

Reviewer 2: Yes, can you make a suggestion?

Reviewer: Somehow the ability to do so goes away if things have been edited before, or it has something to do with review.

Reviewer 2: Done

Reviewer 2: solved

..

  3. Add users you wish to give the permissions to into this group.

As you can see, permissions management this way is powerful,
but can be quite a tedious job. You can't
delegate it to another user, unless granting superuser permissions.

.. _auth-model:

Users, roles, groups, and permissions
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The authentication models consist of several objects:

`Permission`
    Individual permission defined by Weblate. Permissions cannot be
    assigned to users. This can only be done through assignment of roles.
`Role`

>     A Role defines a set of permissions. This allows reuse of these sets in

Reviewer: should be "role"

Reviewer 2: Wanna make the suggestion to correct it?

Reviewer: I don't know the markup used. I like to not touch that stuff other than in my own PRs.
Somehow the ability to make suggestions goes away if things have been edited before, or it has something to do with review. Works now though.

Reviewer 2: I understand, OK, I will do the correction

Reviewer 2: Done

Reviewer 2: done

  :ref:`unrestricted components <component-restricted>`.

- The restrictions imposed by a group's :guilabel:`Languages` are applied later,

>   when the access to perform certain action is verified, and it only affects just

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  when the access to perform a certain action is verified, and it only affects just
```

    Never remove the predefined Weblate groups and users, as this can lead to
    unexpected problems. If you have no use for them, you can removing all their
    privileges instead.

Additional access restrictions
------------------------------

If you want to use your Weblate installation in a less public manner i.e. allow

> new users on invitation basis only. You can configure the Weblate in a such way

Reviewer: ```suggestion
new users on invitatational basis only, it can be done by configuring Weblate in a such way
```

> that only known users will have any access to it. In order to do so you can set

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that only known users have any access to it. In order to do so you can set
```

:setting:`REGISTRATION_OPEN` to ``False`` to prevent registrations of any new

> users and set :setting:`REQUIRE_LOGIN` to ``/.*`` to require sign in to access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
users and set :setting:`REQUIRE_LOGIN` to ``/.*`` to require sign-in to access
```
